# Overview
This repository contains code to run a prelimirary test model of capacity expansion at the substation-level in San Diego. A Julia model `Initial-Model-Formulation.ipynb` can be found in `src` along with a data preprocessing notebook `Test-System-Data-Processing.ipynb`. 

# Code
- `Initial-Model-Formulation.ipynb`: Used to run initial model with DCOPF and a basic budget variable. This model was developed with Julia version 1.8 and utilizes an academic licence for Gurobi. Compatability with other Julia version and optimizers is not gaurnteed but should work. 
- `Test-System-Data-Processing.ipynb`: Used to prepare input file to `Initial-Model-Formulation.ipynb`. All test system files are included in this repository under `../data/test_system` but you can also create them yourself by downloading the full CATS model data described in the following section. Unfortunately the full CATS data are too large to include in a GitHub upload.

# Data
This model leverages data from several sources. To run the preprocessing stript please take the following steps. CATS, `lines.json`, `buses.csv`, and `gens.csv` should be downloaded directly from the [CATS model repository](https://github.com/WISPO-POP/CATS-CaliforniaTestSystem/tree/master) and placed in a folder named `cats` within the data directory. Data for power flow, specifically generator costs can be found in `CaliforniaTestSystem.m`. To extract this data run the file in MATLAB and save the gencost and bus matricies to a folder named `opf` within the data directory. To download, loads and capacity factors please contact the REAM Lab. These files are currently being developeed for related research but are not **yet** publically avalible.